---
title: "'revisiting' old post and cleaning it up"
date: 2024-09-02
---

***
**tl;dr:** Golbez can do a lot of damage with [team buffs](https://gfycat.com/KindheartedForkedGonolek) and [solo](https://gfycat.com/IdioticSourAfricanelephant).
***
(todo: intro > damage calculation > skill set > comparison > videos > whatever else I have + lots of edits) (edit everything that includes weapons, assume you have everything as this is for portfolio use)

**Introduction**: 

Golbez is a mage clad in armor that attacks versatilely both with physical and magic attacks. This all-rounder approach (apperance?) was appealing to me, so I stuck with him in FF4, Dissidia NT, and now, Omnia Opera.

Now, onto a quick preview of his kit, his first two skills are a **mix of melee and magic attacks**, and his EX, Twin Meteor, is magic-only that includes **Dark Imperil** which decreases the tier of an enemies’ resistance. All of these abilities are dark elemental attacks. 

He **must** upkeep stacks of his unique buff, *Shadow Dragon*, so that he can deal damage with follow-ups. (omit this or talk about how he ramps up to lv3; edit this next sentence or remove it completely its redundant)  Also, with a quick and intrusive spoiler alert, you **NEED** his EX weapon to upkeep Shadow Dragon stacks without downtime because his first two skills do not refresh Shadow Dragon’s duration. Otherwise, the buff will wear out, and you’ll be back to square zero. This will be explained in greater detail further on.

With all of this in mind, I wish to present Golbez’ kit as a fan and someone who tested him extensively to see where he works and how he performs. 
***

(todo: shift talk about elemental stuff, damage formula next - consider babying it down more into information that's just necessary to be known; edit too)
 
**Skills &* Buffs**: (consider condensing and remove unnecessary info - but keep potency values) (undo some abbreviations ie overflow, ibrv, mbrv - keep hp)

**Shadow Dragon**: I / II / III increase own ATK & mBRV by 10% / 20% / 30%.	

(consider table)
											
**BRV Attack +**: 1 Dark Magic Single target BRV Attack + 1 Dark Melee single target BRV Attack. Has a total coefficient value 120%. Great filler especially in launch comps (find gif probably; consider having highlightable information give a defn somehow, doubtful w/my knowledge level in github).


**Rising Wave**: 1-Hit Dark Melee BRV + 1-Hit Dark Magic BRV Attack to HP Attack. Grants II stacks for 4 turns of Shadow Dragon. This attack is entirely single target and has a potency of 200%. Self-buffs 40% max BRV. Overflows up to 120% max BRV.

**Rising Wave ++** (Shadow Dragon III): 2-hit Melee BRV & 2-hit Magic BRV into HP hit with a 2-Hit Melee BRV + HP follow up. It has a potency of (60% x 2 + 60% x 2) + 100% x 2 = 440%. Overflows up to 120% mBRV. Does not refresh Shadow Dragon stacks.


*Rising Wave has a total of six uses.*


**Glare Hand**: 1-Hit Melee AOE BRV + 1-Hit Magic AOE BRV to HP. Grants II Shadow Dragon stacks (with 35CP passive) of Shadow Dragon for 4 turns. Glare Hand has a coefficient of 70%+70%. Self buffs 40% ATK.


**Glare Hand ++** (Shadow Dragon III): 2-Hit Melee AOE BRV + 2-Hit Magic AOE BRV to AOE HP with a follow-up of 2-hit Melee AOE BRV+HP AOE. Does not refresh Shadow Dragon stacks. The coefficient is (40 % X 4)+ 60% x 2 = 280%.

*Glare Hand has a total of six uses.*

*This skill also benefits from the 1.6x multiplier on single targets.*

***Note: These skills at ++ do not refresh Shadow Dragon stacks, and the skill will run out and square-zero happens.***

**Twin Meteor**: 5 Dark Magic AOE BRV Attack + AOE HP dmg with a follow up of 5 Dark Magic AOE BRV Attack + AOE HP dmg. It inflicts Dark Imperil on the first meteor. Twin Meteor’s damage is increased by 1.6x modifier on Single target (like Glare Hand). It has 200% mBRV overflow. The coefficient is 30% x 5 + 50% x 5 = 400%.  ***The most important function of Twin Meteor: Grants III stacks of Shadow Dragon for 6 turns.***

***

***

**Coefficient Comparisons:**


As it stands, Golbez has the highest damage coefficient (excluding EX skills) with Rising Wave ++ with a 440% coefficient.
Disclaimer: Tifa has Kiai and Fever Time buffs alongside Quistis’ Debuff Boost Aura, while Golbez only has Ifrit’s 25% ATK and his 40% ATK buff. 
Let’s compare this to Tifa’s Beat Rush w/Fever Time coefficient (360%):


[Golbez](https://gfycat.com/DemandingOblongAlaskankleekai)  vs. [Tifa](https://gfycat.com/PerkyUntimelyDragon)

*(Damage(Golbez)– iBRV – Break Bonus/3 + Damage(Dragon follow-up)) formula for Golbez' damage on the following gif*



(16290-2302-5310/3+11377)= 23595 (Golbez) vs. 6667*3=20,001 (Tifa)

 **23,595 Golbez** vs. **20,001 Tifa**


Even without Golbez completely criting compared to Tifa’s triple crit and outside buffs, Golbez outdpses her by a considerable margin considering the above parameters.
Keep in mind, Golbez is able to inflict Dark Imperil to further increase his damage which brings us to…

***


**Elemental and Weapon Type Interaction**:

With the following formulae in mind, we will be looking at the Damage increase formula. Do note that both of these formulae are product based meaning that lower percentages will decrease damage substantially, and conversely, higher percentages will boost damage to notable degree.

Total Damage = Skill Power x ((ATK x ATK boost x 2/3) - (DEF x DEF boost x 2/9)) x (BRV DMG Reduction) x (BRV DMG Dealt Multiplier) x (**BRV DMG Increase Multiplier**) x (Critical Damage) x (RNG)

BRV DMG Increase = ( **Element Weak** ) x ( **Weapon Type. Weak** ) x (Target R. Weak ) x ( Same Element Enhance ) x (others) 

Moving forward, Golbez’ kit is composed of both melee and magic and dark-elemental locked, it is important to have some understanding of the Damage increase multiplier formula and its correspondence with the overall damage formula.

This brings us to weaknesses, neutral, and resistance categories. While Weapon Type weaknesses and Elemental weaknesses are on the same formula, they are (non-trivially) different. Weapon Type and Elemental weaknesses both effect overall damage based on what they are. Here are the stages that correspond to both weapon types and elements:


**The stages are as follows:**
| Stage       | BRV Damage Multiplier |
|-------------|-----------------------|
| Absorb      | -100%                 |
| Null        | 0%                    |
| Ineffective | 10%                   |
| Resist      | 50%                   |
| Normal      | 100%                  |
| Weak        | 150%                  |



Dark Imperil will decrease the resistance tier by one (i.e. Absorb > Null > Ineffective > Resist > Neutral > Weak)


Now, let us observe the DMG increase formula assuming all parameters, besides Elemental and Weapon Types, are at the ineffective. These above situations will represent the various situations Golbez will face throughout fights, and I’ll quickly go over them:


1. Golbez’ Meteor with **85% damage decrease** with **Magic Ineffectiveness and Dark Weakness** (.1 X 1.5 = .15) will make meteor hit like a pebble. 
1. First two hits [Physical] of Rising Wave with **25% damage decrease** with **Physical Resist and Elemental Weak** (0.5 x 1.5 = 0.75)
1. Last Two hits of Rising Wave [Magic] [Excluding Dragon] with **125% damage increase** via **Weak Magic and Elemental** (1.5*1.5 =2.25) 
1. Golbez’ Meteor with a **50% damage increase** with **Weak Element and Neutral Magic** (1.0 X 1.5=1.5). This damage is great in general.
1. Golbez’ Meteor with a **50% damage decrease** with **Resistant Element and Neutral Magic** (0.5 X 1=0.5). This damage is not amazing, but passable.



All of the above situations that are very applicable to Golbez due to his *dual weapon type* and *Dark Imperil* as it is important to have a rough idea of how much the damage will increase/decrease based on parameters.

***
**Brief Overview of Golbez’ weaknesses:**


1.	**Longetivity**. Golbez has low skill counts, a slow charging EX, and no HP+. While his BRV+ is potent, he still has to take an extra turn to HP attack. 
2.	**Team dependency**. He generally needs a team to fill out extra holes in harder fights because Golbez is a pure DPS. Buffers, batteries, and launchers are his best friends.
3.	**EX dependent**. As stated above, his EX is the only way to recharge his Shadow Dragon Stacks. He loses 2 uses of 440% damage with 120% mBRV overflow in addition to losing Dark Imperil.

***



***
**Conclusion**:


Golbez does a lot of damage and has a lot of interesting variety of options due to his dual weapon type and dark imperil. He might be dependent on a good party to build him up, but he is an attacker that will flourish under the right conditions. Despite my initial criticisms (dual weapon types and dark elemental lock), the math makes him work out on a variety of situations despite 90% physical resistance or 50% magic resistance. Overall, I’m very happy the way Golbez came out, and I can’t wait to use him in more content!


***



**Pros**: *High Damage, Dark Imperil, Decent against Physical-Ineffective enemies*. 



**Cons**: *Entirely EX reliant, team-dependent, sub-par longevity*.



***


**Videos**: 


Because Golbez is a fairly straight-forward character, I’ll only talk about Kefka’s LC100 fight as Golbez’ kit works best with him in that fight. I do recommend watching the Arc 2-1 Last node fights by myself, and by Vpower duo video (Kefka exploiting hp silence/blind, Golbez); these two runs are nice to compare each other with regardless.

***
 [Kefka LV100 LC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBObluVz04k) Dark Resist (50%) feat. Golbez, Rem, and Vanille


For a quick intro, the bosses are 50% Dark Resistant which means there’s a job for Twin Meteor! Upkeeping Dark Imperil is necessary so that Golbez can do optimal damage. While this fight can last a while, especially since I didn’t use a support to clear trash mobs from Wave 1-4, Rem and Vanille supports Golbez via battery, and allows him to pace his skills with ease.


2:24 Twin Meteor at start so I can deal damage.


3:53 Golbez is a tank. /s


5:28 Buffing mBRV  on support Golbez for higher Summon Burst instead of puling off two meteors within 5 support turns.


7:44 Golbez is actually a tank. /s

***
 [Arc 2-1 Last Node](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxIwi7W8LM4) Physical Ineffective (10%) Feat. Ysh, Layle, and Golbez with Kuja as the janitor support.



tl;dr: Despite physical ineffective, I clear in a good score with 15cp 0lb Ysh in party.

***

Vpower's [Arc 2-1 Last Node](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKZzfqGe8NY) video feat. Kefka and Golbez Duo


tl;dr Kefka is meming hard with Trine (Blind and HP silence).

***



[Golbez EX](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HWUfzKv5tjU) event feat. Cait Sith, Golbez, and Quistis

tl;dr Just a lot of damage with a great party.


***



Thanks to Rem's DB, Safeena's DB, and Eyphio & Dubbs for proofreading, editing, and feedback.


***

**P.S**. Please let me know what you think of this review! I would like any sort of feedback as it could help me write a better review if I do another one for the future. Thanks!
***
